i

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAlVlA
SOUTHERN D1VISION

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT

)

OPPORTUNITY COMl\1ISSION,

)

)

Plaintiff,

)

)

and

)

)

SHARONDA GRIFFIN,

)

)

P l a i n t i f f - I n t e n r e n or,

)

v.

)

)

HOUSE OF PHILADELPIIIA CENTER,)

INC.,

)

)

Defendant.

)

)

CIVIL ACTION NO: 1:05-530..KO-M

CONSENT DECREE

The Equal Emplo)'lnent Opportunity Commission (HEEOC" or HCommission") filed this

action against House of Philadelphia Center, Inc. ("House of Philadelphia" or "Defendant") on

September 19, 2005, in this Court, to enforce Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,42 U.S.C.
\
§2000e et seq. (Title VII) and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. §1981a. In the Complaint,

the Cornmission alleged that House of Philadelphia discriminated against Sharonda Griffin

("Griffin") on the basis of scx, femalc, by discharging Ms. Griffin due to her pregnancy, in

violation of Title VII.

House of Philadelphia denies all allegations of unlawful or wrongful conduct raised in the

complaint, and nothing stated in this Decree constitutes an admission of liability or wrongdoing

on the part of House of Philadelphia.

The Parties do not object to the jurisdiction of the Court over this action and waive their rights to a hearing and the entry of findings of fact and conclusions of law. Venue is appropriate in the Southern District of Alabama (Southern Division). The parties agree that this Consent Decree is fair, reasonable, and does not violate the law or public policy. The rights of Ms. Griffin, House of Philadelphia, and the Commission are protected adequately by this Decree.
In the interest of resolving this matter~ avoiding the expense of further litigation, and as a result of having engaged in comprehensive settlement negotiations, the Commission and House of Philadelphia have agreed that this action should be finally resolved by entry of this Consent Decree.
It is ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED: .1. This Decree resolves all claims arising out of the issues between the Commission and Defendant House of Philadelphia in this lawsuit, including without limitation, back pay, compensatory and punitive damages, injunctive relief, costs, and attorney fees. This decree is limited in its scope to matters covered explicitly herein and in particular only to the House of Philadelphia facilities in the State of Alabama. This Decree expires when House of Philadelphia has provided the relief and taken the action provided for herein, or as provided under paragraph 12 of this Decree, whichever is later. 2. Defendant and its officers, agents, employees, successors, and assigns both at the time that this Decree becomes effective and for the duration of this Decree agree to comply with Federal law and acknowledge that it is unlawful to: (a) discriminate against any employee on the basis of pregnancy or sex, (b) harass any employee based on pregnancy or sex; (c) retaliate against any employee because he or she: (i) opposes or opposed discriminatory practices nlade unlawful by Title VII; (ii) files or filed a charge of discrimination or assists, assisted,
2

participates, or participated in the filing of a charge of discrimination; or (iii) assists, assisted, participates or participated in an investigation or proceeding brought under the federal laws prohibiting discrimination or retaliation; and (d) alter the terms and conditions of any employee's employment because of pregnancy or sex.
IVI0NETARY RElJEF 3. House of Philadelphia shaH pay, by certified checks, a total amount of $8,000.00 to Sharonda Griffin. Of this sum, $4,000.00 (four thousand dollars) shall be paid by House of Philadelphia to M's. Griffin by October 6, 2006 and $4,000.00 (four thousand dollars) shall be paid by House of Philadelphia to Ms. Griffin by Monday, November 6, 2006. House of Philadelphia will not condition the receipt of individual relief on Ms. Griffin's agree.ment to (a) maintain as confidential the tenns of this Decree, or (b) waive her statutory rights to file a charge with any federal or state anti-discrimination agency. House of Philadelphia will issue applicable United States Internal Revenue Service Forms to Ms. Griffin for all such payments on or before January 31, 2007. 4. The pa}'rnents provided for in paragraph 3 of this Decree shall be malled directly by House of Philadelphia's attorney to Ms. Griffin's attorney, Daniel A. Hannan, at Mr. Hannan's business address. \Vithin three (3) business days of the issuance of each cbeck, House of Philadelphia shall submit a copy of the check and related correspondence to the United States Equal Emp]oyment Opportunity Commission, Regional Attorney, Binningham District Office, 1130 22nd Street South, Suite 2000, Binningham, Alabama, 35205-2886.
OTHER RELIEF 5. Defendant will institute and carry out policies, practices and training at its Alabama facilities that help assure a \\tork environment free lrOln sex and pregnancy-based discrinlination
3

for its employees that allow employees to raise concerns or complaints \vithout retaliation about

matters, whether alleged~ perceived or actual, made unlawful by Title VII~ and that guide, direct

and encourage employees to report incidents of pre~'11ancy and sex-based discrimination.

6.

Defendant will develop and adopt policies that inc1ude~ at a minimum:

a. A clear and strong commitment to a workplace free of pregnancy and sex-based

discrimination;

b. A clear and strong message of encouragement to persons who believe they have

been discriminated against to come fonvard;

c. A description of the consequences, up to and including tennination, that will be

imposed upon violators of the policy;

d. An assurance of non-retaliation for persons who believe they have been

discriminated against and for witnesses;

e. That discrimination on the basis of sex by anyone, including management

officials, supervisors, vendors, suppliers, third parties and customers, is prohibited and will not

be tolerated;

f.

Assurances that Defendant will investigate allegations of pregnancy and sex-

based discrimination promptly, fairly, reasonably, effectively and as confidentially as possible

under the circmnstances, by appropriate investigators and that appropriate corrective action and

appropriate foHow-up will be taken by Defendant to make victims whole and to eradicate the

discrimination;

g. That infomlation will be provided each employee regarding the employee's right

to file a charge of discrimination with the EEOC, including contact telephone numbers,

TDYITDD and addresses for the EEOC.

4

7. \Vithin sixty (60) days follo\ving the date of entry of this Decree, and annually thereafter for the duration of this Decree, Defendant will provide training at each of its Alabama facilities which shaH explain:(l) what constitutes pregnancy and sex-based discrimination; (2) that Title
vn prohibits this misconduct; (3) how to prevent this misconduct; (4) to whom employees may
complain if they feel they have been subjected to this Inisconducl; and (5) that managers will be evaluated on their enforcen1ent of House of Philadelphia's anti-discrimination policies. This training will also include an explanation of House of Philadelphia's policies regarding pregnancy and sex-based discrimination; the importance of maintaining an environn1ent free from pregnancy and sex discrinlination; and the discipline that Inay be taken against other employees and the managers or supervisors who are found to have allowed the discrimination to occur. Pursuant to this Decree, House of Philadelphia will also conduct the same or similar training at intervals of approximately twelve (12) months during the pendency of this Decree. The following subparagraphs refer to each of the two training periods.
a. The annual training session shall be at least two (2) hours in length, plus an additional thirty (30) minutes for questions and answers. Defendant's Alabama management staff, including all managers who may investigate employee complaints shall attend the annual training sessions together with all hourly and salaried employees. The enlployees who are unable to attend the annual training session nlay watch a videotape of it.
b. Employees shall sign a registry when they attend the annual training session or watch the videotape of the annual training session. Defendant shall keep, for the duration of the Decree, this written record of all employees who attend the annual training session or watch it on videotape.
5

c.

HOllse of Philadelphia win confinn in writing to the EEOC Regional Attorney

that this additional training has been completed in full compliance with the tenns of this Decree.

\Vithin ten (l0) days following its receipt, EEOC will confirm that this training requirement has

been met or provide specific comments about how the training is not in compliance with the

Decree. The parties would communicate to resolve any disputed issues on this training or, if

necessary, have the court resolve the matter.

8. I-louse of Philadelphia will post its current EEO policies in a prominent location,

frequented by enlployees, at each of Defendant's facilities in A1abama. These policies shaH also

be distributed to each current employee within thirty (30) days of the entry of the Decree, and

distributed to all new employees when hired.

9. Defendant shall promptly and appropriately investigate aU complaints of pregnancy and

sex-based discrimination. The investigation must inc1ude a finding of \vhether discrimination

occurred; a credibility assessment; interviews of all potential victims and witnesses identified;

and concurrent notes of the investigation. Defendant shall take immediate appropriate corrective

action to nlake discrinlination victims whole, to discipline violators, and to eradicate the

discrimination. Defendant, if corrective action was required as a result of the investigation, shall

follow up with complainants at appropriate intervals to ensure that the discrimination does not

reoccur. Defendant shall provide notice to EEOC of the resolutions of cOlnplaints of sex or

pregnancy-based discrimination during the pendency of this decree. That notice shall describe

the investigation, and the resolution of the investigation shall be provided to the EEOC within six

(6) months of the initial complaint.

6

APPROVED A~D CONSE~TEf) TO BY:

Chiz,,e"":fA E4J~Jte,jfrA~,tY
HOtlSE OF PHILADELPH lAo
CENTER. INC

Atto • for Defendant RA )'MONDL. BELL. ESQ.
Ben &: Adanis. P,C.
PO, Box 1932 lvtohile, AL 36602 Telephone: (251) 694-9020

Attorney for Plaintiff-Intervenor DANIEL A, HANNAN~ ESQ. 63 S. Royal Street, Suite 1109 ~fobile, Alabama 36602 Telephone; (251) 433-0051
ATTORNEYS FOR PLAINTll1'F KEOS::

C. EMANUEL SMITH Regional Attorney
Supervisory Trial Attorney
MASON D, BARRETT Senior Trial Attorney EQTJ AL El\1PLOY~fENT OPPORTUNITY CO~1MISS[ON Binningham District Ofi1ce t 13() 22nd Street South,. Suite 2000 Bjrminghrun~ AL 35205~2886 Telephone: (205) 212-2047 Facsimile: (205) 212-2041
8

NOTICE

10. Defendant will post the Notice attached as Attacl1Jllent A at each of Defendant's facilities

in Alabama. The Notice will be posted in a highly visible location, frequented by employees, for

the duration of this Decree. The Notice shall be posted in both English and in Spanish, and shall

be the same type, size, and style as Attachment A.

11 w The parties shall bear their O\\'Il attorneys' fees and costs i~curred in this action up to the

date. of entry ofthis Decree.

FORCE AND EFFECf

12.

The duration of this Decree shall be thirty-six (36) months from ·its entry. This Court

shall retain jurisdiction over this action for the duration of the Decree, during which the

Commission may petition this Court for compliance with this Decree. Should the Court

detennine that defendant has not complied with this Decree, appropriate relief, including

extension ofthis Decree for such period as may be necessary to remedy its non~comp1iance, may

be ordered. Absent extension, this Decree shall expire by its own tenns at the end of thirty-si~

(36) months from the date of entry, without further action by the Parties.

13. The parties agree to the entry ofthis Decree subject to final approval by the Court.

IT IS SO ORDERED: This 9th day of January 2007.

)

///

. / ) f)

~~_/~"'-~'-~~-~~-=~~~--r-___~/~'~~~/~~~(j~?

ISTI K. DuBOSE

UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE

7

